# Biometrics

Biometrics are body measurements and calculations related to human characteristics. Usually, biometric is used to identify indivuals in groups. Such prectice is called biometric authentication (or realistic authentication) and is used in computer science as a form of identification and access control. However with the raise of artificial intelligence, it is alos being usde by official institutions to identify protesters. Artist Paolo Ciro, in his work Capture https://paolocirio.net/work/capture/ points the same facial recognition tools against the police.

In Ciros words: The series of photos Capture is composed of French police officers’ faces. Paolo Cirio collected 1000 public images of police in photos taken during protests in France and processed them with Facial Recognition software. Cirio then created an online platform with a database of the resulting 4000 faces of police officers to crowdsource their identification by name. Moreover, Cirio printed the officers’ headshots as street art posters and posted them throughout Paris to expose them also in the public space. Capture commented on the potential uses and misuses of Facial Recognition and Artificial Intelligence by questioning the asymmetry of power at play. The lack of privacy regulations of such technology eventually turned against the same authorities that urge the use of it. This provocation triggered the reactions of the Interior Minister of France and the police unions which forced censorship of the artwork, despite it being celebrated by the French citizens and the international press. Initially, as an activist, Cirio introduced a campaign to ban Facial Recognition technology in all of Europe. In 2021 for his campaign #BanFacialRecognitionEU, Paolo Cirio delivered a package to various European institutions containing a legal complaint with his research and petition with over 50000 signatures supporting a ban on Facial Recognition in Europe. The European Commission replied to Cirio's complaint by acknowledging the need to legally restrict the use of Artificial Intelligence.

## Individuals Vs Humans

Biometric identifiers are the distinctive, measurable characteristics used to label and describe individuals. Biometric identifiers are often categorized as physiological characteristics which are related to the shape of the body. Examples include, but are not limited to fingerprint, palm veins, face recognition, DNA, palm print, hand geometry, iris recognition, retina, and odor/scent. Behavioral characteristics are related to the pattern of behavior of a person, including but not limited to mouse movement, typing rhythm, gait, signature, behavioral profiling, and credentials. Some researchers have coined the term behaviometrics to describe the latter class of biometrics.

In this perspective, biometrics is used as a mean of separation. The effectiveness theat technology has achieved raises privacy concerns, as pointed out in Capture, about the use of this information.

Another alterantive use of biometrics can also be as a mean for conenction <look reference>
