# Algorithm
/ˈalɡərɪð(ə)m/
noun

a process or set of rules to be followed in calculations or other problem-solving operations, especially by a computer.
"a basic algorithm for division"

## Algoritmic Art

Algorithmic art, also known as computer-generated art, is a subset of generative art (generated by an autonomous system) and is related to systems art (influenced by systems theory). Fractal art is an example of algorithmic art

Exerp from: wikipedia - Algorithmic Art

In Art History. A history of algorithms in the visual arts would be voluminous touching many phases in every culture at every turn - the Egyptian canons for drawing the human figure,  the infinite geometric play in Islamic art and the role of both linear perspective and proportion in Renaissance art. In China we would find the Mustard Seed Manual and in Byzantium the conventions for icon painting.  In Europe, by the  Seventeenth Century we would find extremely sophisticated algorithms for plotting the dizzying perspectives  imaging the passage from earth to heaven.

Even so, notational systems for the visual arts played a limited role when compared to notational systems for music.  A gifted composer could compose  a score for a profoundly moving musical passage that could be played hundreds of years later by a skilled virtuoso. Not so for the painter. While Leonardo could easily employ an algorithm for creating the perspective space in the Last Supper, he could not, at that time, compose an algorithm for rendering the face of Judas. 

The 20th Century.  A 20th Century  history  would find some interesting pre-algorist examples in the 1960's and 1970's.  Fluxus, minimalist and conceptual artists employed various methods of procedural specification challenging traditional conceptions of art.  For example, George Brecht's  early  works were primarily very lean instructions printed on cards; the cards, with the instructions were  the art works.  Occasionally he  mailed an instruction to me and he came to be  associated with "Mail Art" that preceded Fax Art.   His cards could be a very lean,  one or two word event  such as "House Number".   Conceptual art in  its many forms preceded so called "computer art". It was not until artists gained access to computing power that they were able to compose form-generators for the investigation of form. 

Exerpt taken from: http://www.verostko.com/algorithm.html

